hey everyone sophie cmo
i have been in marketing for about 20
years
about half of that has been in sat a
couple of big companies medalia google
and in addition to helping user zoom
scale to 100 million arr which we're
nearly there um i've also then advised
and mentored some very early stage
startups which was a huge ton of fun for
an incubator
alfonso
so my name is alfonso dylan
and spanish is alfonso de la nois
since we're in spain i have to say it in
different ways
i'm the co-founder and proud co-ceo at
user zoom
and
we're here to share
you know some of the lessons learned in
the last few years
i have to say first of all how amazing
it is to be here
because i live in the san francisco bay
area
and i think i attended the first saster
event in san francisco about 10 years
ago and i was sitting there
listening to people just like me today
and just admiring what they were saying
and dreaming about doing what they were
doing and scaling the business and
all that stuff when we first moved to
silicon valley
and here i am today sharing this
amazing story
uh with you all in my home country
so
ask me how i feel about that
pretty pretty emotional um it's a dream
come true and
also i'm i'm very happy to be here
sharing this story with you because i
really believe that first of all i know
that i think about 80 percent of the
companies here are sub 10 million and
trying to make it
obviously trying to scale and i think
that
all entrepreneurs we need to help each
other out
you know i got a lot of help uh in
silicon valley when i moved there
uh to try to get to uh 10 million and
then pass 10 million
never thought i would get to 100
but i got a lot of help and and saster
was actually
phenomenal and super inspirational
so
um
a couple minutes on user zoom i guess
you know who are we what do we do and
you know how do we how do we get to 100
million
user zoom
it offers user experience research and
testing
for companies to
optimize
all digital products digital experiences
whether it's websites
mobile apps
internet
prototypes
mockups whatever and what we do is we
enable customers to run
efficient
cost effective user research usability
testing user experience we help
designers we help researchers we help
product leaders
optimize
their their digital products through
insights
with real users this is a market that
back then when we started and i'll talk
about this quite a bit today
it was not a really big market it was a
niche market but it's become now
sort of uh the way to do the way to
build new software the way to to be
customer-centric in everything you do
and as we'll speak about today there's
plenty of
uh real financial
you know roi behind what we do and this
has been key for us to get to 100
million
anything you'd like to add about user
zoom
and um the odd thing about is it's you
know i've worked at some great companies
and just it's it's amazing when you can
see the impact of what insights can do
you know for founders and people
building products so why don't you tell
your story yeah so we started in spain
barcelona we have about 130 people i
think in the office here uh and growing
um i'm actually from madrid spain but we
spent quite a bit of time between
barcelona and madrid and right away from
the beginning i moved to uh silicon
valley
to roll out the u.s market because we
this is we're talking 2008 or so
and we had the big crisis back then so
we thought that the the valley and in
the us would be the market to go to
uh we bootstrapped the business by the
way as i'll mention in a minute
um and then after
a very tough five to seven years we
finally started taking off
and the company finally raised some
capital
uh in 2015.
again i'll tell you all about this later
but it was a it's a beautiful story i
think of a company that starts in spain
starts humble
starts with very little uh resources and
then um you know moves to the valley and
you know becomes a
a large company um you know
we raised a 34 million dollar round in
then we raised a 100 million round
in 2020 right in the middle of the
pandemic
and then
about a month ago
we closed a deal a strategic investment
a strategic growth investment with toma
bravo which is one of the top
three software companies in in the world
with a valuation of 800 million so
great uh great story thank you
so again i'm just super excited to tell
you guys the story and
um talk about these 10 lessons learned
let's start with
falling in love with the problem
so even last night we had a nice dinner
and we were talking about
oh you guys created a category here
right i said no not really this this is
not a
creation of a category this is more of a
disruption
and i think that all founders we should
look at what we're building and what
we're doing and think about it is this
something that we're disrupting or are
we really literally creating a new
category if you're creating a new
category good luck it's very very tough
and you're going to need a lot of
capital probably and a lot of time
and you're going to have to convince the
market if you're disrupting like we did
we basically went and cloudified
the lab right we all the studies and all
the testing that that we were doing
before
user zoom was done manually in a lab
with a one-way mirror how many of you
guys have participated in a usability
test
yeah quite a few okay
my mission would be that all of you will
do it sooner rather than later but you
know we were basically disrupting that
market um instead of doing it in a lab
in a physical and manual
labor intensive way we cloudified it and
with the software that we created we
automated
the way you do user research
so we were really disrupting uh the
other the other
um point is
you know as entrepreneurs
we have these ideas right we we're we're
so happy and we're so enthusiastic about
going on your own and building your own
business
is it a genius idea that we have i had
plenty of ideas before user zoom by the
way or is it really a problem are we
really solving a problem for customers
so i would suggest that you know you do
some serious research i got to be honest
the way we learned about the market and
the gap
in the market was through our previous
startup so user zoom is our second
startup the same co-founders started
user zoom but also started a consulting
company and it was through the
consulting that was about seven years
seven eight years long
that experience
helped us understand
that there was a real gap in the market
companies really wanted to get insights
and feedback from from users and from
customers however it was so time
consuming and so labor intensive that
only a handful of companies were able to
do that do it do it and by the way do it
they actually wanted to do it more on a
more ongoing continuous basis but it was
impossible just too too much money too
much time impossible to meet you know
the agile
development
demands and and requirements so
we thought about hey if we put if you
put together a software and using the
internet
you can connect users remotely so you
don't have to bring them to the lab
you know maybe what we can do is we can
get more scalability uh cost
effectiveness and then actually run
studies on a more ongoing basis which is
what's happening today
our customers are running you know 300
400 studies
actually sometimes less than that maybe
50 to 100 studies a year that's still a
lot of research a lot of tests and if
you look back a few years ago they were
doing maybe four five maybe 10 per year
and so now they're making decisions
they're they're considering user
feedback when they're designing when
they're developing they're reducing the
risk of developing the wrong thing which
again we'll talk about later in the in
the benefits of of um
of what we do
um but again fall in love with the
problem means really understand what the
problem is
and rather than just follow your gut as
entrepreneurs we all have to follow our
guts and our instincts but
if you can conduct serious research
we did it through the previous startup
but if we hadn't had that startup to be
honest with you i think uh we wouldn't
have had as much understanding of what
the what the problem was
this is
one of my favorites so i think the
reason why user zoom has been successful
and it took us a while to get going but
honestly speaking
um you have to pick the right partners
so i get asked quite a bit how did you
find your your founding partners how did
you meet them
um
you know and uh the fact is that we
actually met at the same consultancy and
we worked together in several projects
we got along really well
and i think is the reason for success uh
at userzoom we had three co-founding
partners and we kind of had our our our
roles and our tasks clearly divided
um i read this book that i'd like to
share with you guys
the uh rocket fuel vi visionary
integrator combo
when i read this book i was like that's
exactly what we were doing and what we
what we needed also to scale
somebody maybe one of the founders is
more of the visionary uh the kind of
crazy dude
the app the the steve jobs
um more social more sales oriented um
you know can sell the story in an
elevator right to anybody
but then there has to be the other
aspect which is
you know you also have to be able to run
it run it efficiently run it effectively
and also you know
have
some financial skills as well for
instance right so this vi
model
is what we had at userzoom we had a
third partner who was also a product guy
um
and uh you know i think we set the
expectations clear from the beginning
who was gonna do what
um and don't underestimate culture so
to me culture is well as peter drucker
said culture eats strategy for breakfast
right so don't underestimate the
importance of
the three the three leaders in our case
or the leaders of the company the
leaders of the startup setting the
culture
you're going to be setting the culture
for the whole company and it's really
all about your responsibility so if you
find the right partners to start up
that's going to be much
easier you want to take this one yeah so
you've found the right partners
you've got your problem a genius problem
followed by alfonso um so what do you do
next so you may have heard this before
but we think this is still really really
important to think about and is to
define one persona until you scale
and as a cmo i just love to hear a
founder give this advice because it
means that a marketer and the product
developers can focus on a problem can
focus on those pain points they can do
that deep research and maybe apply
something the model like you know i like
the jobs to be done model i think that's
i think that's very smart model to use
and to really make sure that you're
nailing those those problems now i have
to tell you uh there's a confessional
head i'm going to make on behalf of
alfonso he did none of those things
until he met the man on this slide
so what alfonso actually did he took the
physical business and launched the sales
business based on what he thought he
knew with his co-founders
and then went to this course at mit with
ken moss and realized the power of focus
so we were also discussing at dinner
last night alfonso had that kind of
happy sad problem where they were making
money they were taking money but they
were paying the bills but they could
have been taking money from anybody
because they didn't have that clear
target persona
so then this happy moment i think would
have been when alfonso told me he had
paypal
who wanted the team to build 80 features
in order to renew
he also had a major bank that wanted him
to build on-prem and i'm sure you had a
bunch of other customers asking you to
do all of these different things
now without focusing on that one target
persona it would be very difficult to
decide
where the next piece of revenue is going
to come from now i'm going to give you
the end of the story and you know
luckily alfonso decided to take the ux
researcher persona which was the paypal
option
and
you know built i believe 79 of those
features and that enabled the team to go
and sell the same proposition to people
like google facebook amazon ebay so all
words how well in the end but that focus
on the persona is what helped drive that
decision
yeah i'll be honest with you um this
this guy here is ken morse from mit and
actually was here in barcelona
i don't even remember the year but it
must have been 2010 or near that year
we weren't really sure who our target
persona was i'm sure many of you are
thinking the same thing is like do i go
to the enterprise market do i go to the
smb do i start with smb and then start
growing going up market or the other way
typical question we had it as well i'll
be honest we weren't sure
and we weren't really
focusing on one and this is what we
learned from this course from from this
uh course from kenmore's is focus on
only one now it's easier said than done
right you're taking some chances here
because you're gonna be you're gonna
have to be very disciplined and say no
to potential options and when we're
starting up we need money from anywhere
right we need we're looking under the
stones you know if there's any money out
there and we're going to say yes and i
remember that you know we would go and
answer the phone or or um you know
provide a service to any company out
there that would pay us
you know a few thousand euros
to start with but actually it was this
course that i remember the three of us
going back to the office and saying you
know what let's just focus on those guys
the pay pals right let's focus on those
large enterprises and we started doing
more research as i say there you know to
understand the pain points these guys
had you know multiple website multiple
web properties uh they had the budget
and most important
for them to improve user experience and
you know
conversion ratios of 0.01
meant potentially a million dollars
right or even more so therefore they
were happy to pay us you know 50 000 or
30 000 i think is where we started 40
000 a year which we thought was quite a
bit
but
um honestly
i think the lesson for me was that we
were going everywhere and um we didn't
really pay much attention to you know
focusing on one specific persona and i
think that once we learned that we were
able to focus uh as i say in the last
bullet point you know give it a chance
and then iterate we worked with paypal
quite a bit but you know we didn't we
didn't just work for paypal we thought
that whatever we were doing for them was
going to uh um you know work for others
as well
all right so funding and of course
saster has been phenomenal when it comes
to
content around funding and vcs and
united in the community of entrepreneurs
and vcs
and so i say be creative when it comes
to funding
personally you know maybe it's because
the two startups that we that we created
you know we did not use vc money we
bootstrapped them
of course of course it was hell
and back several times it was really
hard to do
but i really believe and you know when
we went to the valley by the way
we didn't go to fun to find capital
uh is we went to valley and we went to
the us
uh to find the market that's where our
customers were like paypal
and we did have conversations with with
vcs but the fact is that you know you
have to be ready i always say get some
traction
get some metrics really understand the
problem
as i said earlier
and try to get that seed capital
weight as much as you can in our case we
waited for seven years guys
and i can tell you you know honestly you
know we were past the 10 million dollar
mark and we had only raised
i think uh 1 million one and a half
million more or less between again
friend family and fools bank loans
government grants
customers that were paying for some
services which i'll talk about in a
minute
we are very creative very resourceful
this is much more i guess typical here
in spain and in europe where capital is
not as abundant as it is in the valley
but we got going and you know what once
we passed the 10 million dollar mark
vcs were pitching to us
it was incredible
you guys are
past 10 million dollars in a growing
market and you're ebitda positive they
were pitching to us
i was
i'm not lying if i tell you that i was
able to race we were able to raise 34
million dollars
and we actually didn't really pitch we
talked about our story we showed him
some numbers and we got some offers and
we ended up partnering with the right
partner i'll talk about it in in a few
points here but we did it without having
to pitch you know the typical story of
the entrepreneur going out and pitching
50 times
we didn't we our way was different we
focused on the business we focused on
growing we got traction and we waited
for the right time
to me vc
is is money that is is more gasoline to
already burning fire if you're not
burning if you don't have something
going on i think it's
it's it's the wrong thing to do
so be creative there's multiple ways to
do it one of them was
in our case um this is also something
that um a lot of people have asked me
about so we chose a model
of being a
sas business right a software as a
service but they call it sas plus plus
when service actually was about 50
at some point
even even higher
um you know meaning professional
services not just uh selling licenses or
subscriptions but actually delivering a
service
and this um actually worked out really
well for us you know the customers were
getting true value and they were getting
exposed to what they could do and then i
remember it was google that came along
and said hey guys you're really good
consultants or researchers or you know
you're providing us a great service but
we'd like to have the keys to the car
uh meaning can i have the you know login
and password and uh run the start run
the studies ourselves
to which we said
well let us go back and think about it
it took us a year or maybe two i don't
remember exactly but it took us a while
to go from an on-premise delivering
service to um a fully cloud-based
on-demand
sas model uh in the meantime guess what
we were funding the business right with
some services and so
uh it worked out really well for us i
mean today you you know like for
instance qualtrics which is a company
that i admire uh qualtrics went uh
public and also uh before they went
public they sold to sap for eight
billion dollars and you know when they
when you look at their s1 uh they were
about to go public before they got
bought they actually had a third of the
revenue was services
and you know
they got an 8 billion valuation
sometimes services depending on where
you are especially if you're in b2b
like we were or like we are
sometimes services can can really add a
lot of value as long as you have this 75
rule more or less you know if you can
demonstrate that you have you know
recurring revenue
um and license and subscription to the
software of 75 and 25 services you're
okay
the other the other thing is about
making uh professional services
recurring so
that's another um
another thing we did over the years is
we learned that there was value but we
also wanted to wanted to make sure or
prove ourselves and prove to our
customers that these services were not
just like you know one time maybe you
know onboarding services in the first
month or two months we actually were
able to
define uh recurring
managed services throughout the whole
year
and as of today i think user zoom we
have you know somewhere in the vicinity
of 50 to 20
of our revenue is services and our
customers um love our our consultants i
just have to of course pay close
attention to grow smart margin
um
i've learned that um you know if
sometimes you can actually give it away
you can give the services away as long
as they uh support the the business the
the software business um or in other
cases like in our case we actually have
a 40 gross margin so if you deliver real
value customers are happy to pay and as
long as you can prove that there's gross
margin and you're not losing money um
you're
in great shape being a software as a
service plus plus company
well this is one of my favorites of
course because that's what we do at
userzoom is we do user experience
research and we empower ux designers
that's brian chesky founder and ceo at
airbnb one of my favorite companies
and of course brian chesky is actually
a design freak he actually is not a
business major
or a finance major or you know
he he comes from design school
and um i love what they've done with
their business it's not only a
phenomenal uh company but it's also a
phenomenal design company and they spend
a
ton of money on design and research and
insights
and
i think that what happens when you have
great ux design this is one of my
favorite topics to talk about with
entrepreneurs
like i would actually invest in product
user experience design and uh and
delivering a great user experience even
before i invest in sales before i invest
in marketing
i think if you can make
the user experience be
um you know kind of the competitive
advantage
it's going to be a great way and a very
efficient way for you to grow look at
user experience look at product ux as
not just something that's cool a lot of
people confuse user experience with ui
it's not about how it looks it's about
how it works how the website or your
product actually works and whether it's
easy to use or whether it allows your
users before their customers or even
wants their customers to do whatever
whatever they came to do in a very
seamless and intuitive way
you'll see that companies that are
actually investing in in ux
and mckinsey is actually covering this
you know they actually outperform their
competitors even public companies uh are
outperforming their competitors and
growing twice as fast as those that are
not investing in design and recent
horowitz calls this the decade of design
between the 2020s
is the decade of design
don't underestimate the power and how
much is going to help you grow
to have a great user experience and be
the product and kind of
be product led growth versus investing
in in sales and marketing and i'm not
suggesting do not invest in sales and
marketing we do as well but if you can
start off with a great experience you
know one of the key metrics that i look
at is retention
and
um
one of the best ways to retain a
customer is by making things easy and
intuitive
um
and and be user insights driven
you know make decisions based on user
feedback don't just rely on designers or
developers listen it's tough it's really
really difficult to deliver a great
killer digital experience you have to
make a ton of decisions you're gonna it
takes a village it's about design and
development and product management and
marketing
uh everyone getting together
and sometimes you know to be honest you
have to make decisions and
ultimately it should be all about the
end user not whatever the head of design
or even one of you
the founder suggests should be really
focused on the end users so
um
do do
do um
user research usability testing and ux
research
product marketing yeah some thoughts on
go to market so
you are in this brilliant position
you've got this great problem you're
solving you've built this fantastic user
experience that people love now you need
to get more people to hear about your
product and want to test and try your
product so you need to invest in product
marketing
that's uh that's probably a little
obvious i hear you say of course i want
a product marketing team at some point
but the reason that we bring it up is
because
we still see early stage founders invest
in growth marketing first
and the challenge with that is if you
invest in growth marketing and you don't
have clear crisp value proposition and
you don't have that foundational
messaging done your marketing investment
probably won't give you the best roi
so one message i want to land is that
product marketers can help you stop
spending money badly they can really
make a lot of other parts of your
marketing sales and marketing machine
work better
so let's talk about a couple of things
product marketing are great at and then
i may just talk a couple of couple of
things about hiring
so
one thing private marketers really good
product marketers are good at is
stopping you talking about yourself and
how great you are and how your product
works they bring an outside-in
perspective to make sure all of the
great stuff that you're building
directly connects to the value that the
customers want to hear about and that's
much more important to them
than the fact that you built this thing
that does that when this happens and
that happens so make sure everything you
do
is connected to the value and get a
great product marketer to help you do
that
um
alfonso talked about ux and product like
growth and of course amazing fantastic
but as he mentioned
some of you are going to have sales and
marketing teams
now i don't know if any of you saw dave
kellogg yesterday from balderson capital
but he reminded us of all how expensive
sales people are
so on top of their salary there's the
sdr cost you may have scs
and he also mentioned a number of a
hundred thousand dollars to generate
between 20 and 40 opportunities
so if your sales people are having
trouble articulating your value
proposition and linking all of the great
work that you've done directly to the
pain points of your users you're going
to be a little bit less efficient and in
this market that's not what any of us
want
so product marketing foundational
messaging great for the product great
for self-discovery and also great for
your sales team
now one thing we love in sas is an
architecture so an architecture you know
one of those diagrams that explains what
you do
sometimes it shows data flows to make
things really simple
they're great because in a glance
somebody can understand what you do and
how your product hopefully how your
product is viable to them
now here's my confession we don't have
one at the moment which we're fixing
right now
and i actually think that we're
underselling because we're getting
customers come back to us with things
that they didn't know we did in the
first place
so very very important super quick read
people can get if you have a great
architecture now i will mention they're
also great for alignment
so
what people say internally quite often
is translated externally so you really
want to get your marketing sales product
you want to get the whole company using
the same terminology the same messaging
for everything that you're packaging and
sending to market
i'll find alfonso you're passionate
about this did you have anything to add
on that i i just i think
i think you may get away with it at the
beginning
the sooner you can get it figured out
the better but there's no way you can
scale without it that's how i look at
product marketing and architecture and
this getting alignment look we've this
is these are lessons that we've learned
growing user zoom and i'll tell you
we're not the very best at it we're
learning about it actually brought uh
sophie with us
nine months ago more or less
um to work on this and it's not easy
you know we're now 400 people and it's
you know we have to do some some real um
kind of looking at ourselves in the
mirror and some people are used to
calling things one way the other
you have to again once again be
user-centric
and the
the point of product marketing is to
make it easy to sell make it make it
easy to buy
make it easy to use those are the three
things it's all about easy easy easy and
simple now it's not
doing things
simple
when you're already at 100 million trust
me it's a lot harder than doing it at
the beginning
so my my lesson i guess in this case is
i wish i had done this earlier i really
wish i had done product marketing a
little earlier would have built a
foundation
and you know right now we're kind of
figuring things out at userzoom and it's
going to take a while
if we had built a foundation from the
very beginning i think we would have
been better off so
do invest in product marketing
i think what alfonso is describing and i
don't think i heard you use this word i
know that the word technical debt is
used a lot there is such thing believe
me from a market as product marketing
debt and you will get to it if you don't
work with your product marketers early
on to define um how you're going to
message position and go to market
now as you're doing this
you need to think about dumbing it down
um labels and copywriting so labels
let's think about features for a minute
how many features
do you want to put in front of your
customers at one time you know how many
things do they have to get through
before they understand the value value
of your product and the reason i mention
this is because it's very common for
product managers and of course
everyone's very excited about all the
features that they're launching they
want to name every single one
and i think there's one thing we can all
agree on
i don't think there's any empty roadmaps
here
you know there is more software coming
and there will be more software coming
every year
so bundling is your best friend
simple naming is your best friend and
you know i'm going to apologize slightly
you know maybe to some of the engineers
and product folks in the room but um
that's where a lot of product names
start and of course they're often
descriptive
and they describe what the feature is
doing but but at some point i would uh i
would definitely recommend that you put
them through your product marketing
folks and have a strategy for how you
will position a name in the future to
avoid that product marketing debt
anything else
ah let's just move on because we got
about 12 minutes to go oh what next
alfonso
thinking big
um
i can also share my personal story here
so
you know we're we're in spain and
um i've lived 22 years in the valley
and the way we think is different
and i'm here to encourage everyone
to think big
and kind of really big not just big but
big
really big because first of all in sas
the world is truly your market right
here
i'll be honest i'll tell you what our
story is from from from a spanish
entrepreneur
you know you have your spanish market or
european entrepreneur you have your your
local market which in our case was spain
and you know we weren't thinking that
much about other markets
it's very typical to think yeah
my market my enterprises the the the
total addressable market
in your local market or the uk or france
or whatever
the way the valley works is completely
different they don't think about
california they don't think about the us
they think immediately they want to
change the world it's it's a mentality
rather than a place
silicon valley i've always said is more
of a mentality than a place
they have the ecosystem and the they're
just bold about everything they do they
want to change the world
and so i remember that i got the virus
this so-called silicon valley virus and
you know a lot of people were
this is 10 years ago were kind of
calling me crazy for you know trying to
build a great business a billion dollar
business um but actually
it it did us it did as well right so if
you think sometimes maybe um
you know you're we're being very
cautious or very careful with capital
maybe we don't raise capital and
literally last night we were talking
about the comp you know the the right uh
balance between you know raising
uh a lot of capital or or uh not raising
any capital at all
um i told you the story about how we
didn't at the beginning race
a lot of capital honestly i think that
i think that if i could go back and do
it again the lesson i learned is that we
could have raised maybe three to four
years in rather than seven years in
because the problem with not raising is
that you
potentially miss opportunities right and
so you have to find that's why it's so
hard to be an entrepreneur you have to
figure out what's coming see where the
puck is going see you know what options
there is in the market and who else than
yourself to do that right so
if you can anticipate what's coming then
that's when you
uh when you can think about hey if i had
more capital i could actually grab more
opportunities in the valley sometimes
what i what i see is that a lot of
companies because there there is so much
uh capital
they actually have this um
difference in terms of um risk aversion
right they just they don't care they
just go
go and take the risk and it's a very
different mentality than how i think we
operate certainly in spain but
i think in europe in general
and i think that if if we're going to
have more eu
based unicorns and references we have to
be bold we have to think big
and by the way i think we are much more
resourceful
in general i feel like we're much more
resourceful again because we have less
access to capital and we figure things
out but let's not be guilty of not
you know uh thinking big enough
dreaming is free and uh by having that
attitude i think is going to help you uh
you know grow the business that's that's
what happened to us
so
i was talking about picking your right
partners for startup and now for
scale-up
um again that's uh peter drucker with
the culture eats strategy for breakfast
quote that i like so much
a lot of people ask me about bc money
versus pe money so venture capital
versus private equity
very different very very different
i you know pes typically
invest in companies that are already
you know 10 million or or bigger
and they want to you know they're
typically a little more conservative
they like to see you know a
profitability not a clear path already
profitability profile
um vcs you know they really want to grow
grow grow super fast and grow at all
costs
guess what
in the last uh 15 years or so i've seen
several uh stages or several moments in
the market where
like today
growing at all costs does not work
if you're trying to raise money and
you're burning money it's going to be a
tough one for the next few quarters
i'm pretty sure most of you are aware of
what's going on in the market and
um
you know it's it's tough
so when if you're if you're gonna pick
or if you're thinking of working with
with uh with a vc or a pe
you know think about the the market
opportunity is it a really large market
that you think you can grow
uh fast we're talking you know 40 50 60
or so per year at least
um
you know and there's a huge opportunity
and you want to be first or you want to
beat your competitors maybe vc is the
route a pe firm however is a completely
different uh type of partner and they're
going to help you like they're helping
us right now they're going to help you
keep growing maybe not necessarily at
super hyper speed you know
30 to 40 growth rate is is more than
enough
but they're going to help you be
really good at operations and and
they're going to bring a bunch of
operational experience and and people
that have done this and been there done
that maybe uh taking companies public
and they're going to help you uh operate
personally i really appreciate it it's a
i'm a first-time ceo i've never scaled a
business like this and i actually enjoy
having some really smart people
that sometimes you know
they're not fun because they tell you
what to do
let's be honest uh but other but very
often they are they're extremely uh
helpful
um
uh culture
i i don't think that you should worry
i we didn't we didn't worry about
valuation
in all three rounds to be honest with
you um you know we didn't pick the the
partner or the in this case the the
private equity that gave us the highest
valuation it's not necessarily the the
top priority honestly speaking you know
um if you find the right i mean when you
when you partner with with uh private
equity like we did you're literally
getting married and there's no way out
right you better do due diligence you
better get to know them well one of my i
one of the uh best things that we've
done and advice i would give you is
get to know these people for
a long time
don't you know don't just meet a few
times if you can actually meet with them
you know
for a few years you know we got to know
the toma bravo guys for about four years
before we eventually you know decided to
partner up
so
i think really is culture and do they
get you do they get you as a person do
they get your markets do they get your
your strategy your your growth strategy
uh make sure that you set the
expectations right uh you know because
they're gonna have a you're gonna have a
board
and um you better you better be aligned
with
with the growth strategy
and and the best way to know to do that
is by focusing on on culture by focusing
on on you know expectations and the
persona
different vcs and different pes they
have different partners
and even the same company might have a
different person leading
an investment completely different
person than this this other they may be
the same firm but the partner the person
is what matters
so get to know that person get to know
um you know other companies that they're
working with get to know other
entrepreneurs that they are backing up
it's really about culture just one of
the biggest lessons guys
is how culture eats strategy for
breakfast
well last but not least
this is one of my favorites because
what i've learned over these years guys
is that
especially again me being a first-time
entrepreneur
honestly i'm very humble about what
we've created here you know i'm very
proud but i'm at the same time very
humble i've learned so much every single
day is a new day
you know every week i learn something
from somebody who has more experience
you know you think you got to 100
million well guess what there's so many
other companies that have done it
especially if you live in the valley and
so you're
you know you've got to park your ego
you gotta have enough ego but park quite
a bit of it you know and one of the best
things as you go from being an
entrepreneur to being a ceo
is
to focus on hiring
hey it's not easy i'm not going to sit
here and
pretend that it's a simple thing to do
you know you create this this is your
baby
but if you really want to scale again
we're talking about how we got to 100
honestly speaking the best thing you can
do is to hire
really good people actually
better people than you
that can sell they can market
they can
build software and all that stuff and
just
let them know and focus on focus on what
the mission vision and culture is and
then let them operate get the hell out
of the way
it's not just a
a good thing to do but in my mind is a
must do
this is one of my favorites honestly
because it's been rough and i'm not
going to pretend that it was easy but i
don't regret hiring this this phenomenal
talent they're the ones that are
actually getting this done and you're
just sitting there and watching them
operate and it's phenomenal but
you gotta park your eagle
all right so got
two minutes to go and basically
this last slide is
kind of summarizing all 10. uh again i
think that i'd like to
highlight all of them are important and
i could have written another
another 10 or 20 more easily
uh but i think that um
you know the ones that i my favorite
ones are
build a great product ux make product
user experience your competitive
advantage and make it kind of um
one of the ways that you look at your
when you look at your growth strategy
think about product ux
don't think it's just a nice to have
it's a must-have make your users and
your customers your your best sales
people
and um i think the last one is um
well product marketing is very important
i have marketing's in there somewhere
of course i'm so thankful you know for
for the job that um sophie has done
something comes from medallia and from
google
and so back to my point about going from
an entrepreneur to a ceo and hired a
great talent
you know i never dreamed that i would
have a professional like sophie that has
done uh eight years at google cloud or
google analytics
yeah a bunch of bunch of the ads
products yeah just spent half time in
silicon valley half time here and it's a
pleasure to work with the founder
and uh taking medallia uh public which
is potentially a path that we're taking
as well so
back to number 10 uh
you know higher focus if you want to
scale focus on hiring the best talent
let them operate
um get out of the way
and
enjoy the ride
[Music]
you